Course Description
==================

In 1935, the Seventh Congress of the Communist International encouraged the formation of Popular Fronts, made up of wide groups of anti-fascist organizations and political parties, to stem the advances made by fascism in Europe. The softening of the Comintern’s approach—moving from world revolution to anti-fascism led to the schism between the Stalin-run Comintern and the Trotsky-led Fourth International. Strange as it may seem to contemporary readers, the schisms and rifts in the Comintern had strong effects both in Europe and in the United States, particularly in large, urban centers that were focal points of communist activity. Furthermore, the communists in the US were active in recruiting artists and intellectuals from among African-Americans, explaining that communism was the best way to defeat the entrenched racism of the United States.

This class serves to introduce the student to the history of communist activity in Chicago during the 1930s. We’ll do this by looking at texts written during that time that came from communist-run John Reed Clubs up to *Native Son*, which is both a reaffirmation and repudiation of communist claims. Then, we’ll carry our discussions and investigations into communism in Chicago to Spain, tracking American writers there during the Spanish Civil War. The writers supported the Frente Popular-led Republican Government, and were often very explicit in their support of a democratically elected communist government. We close our session in Spain with *For Whom the Bell Tolls*, a canonical work of American literature that hints, like *Native Son*, at the growing disillusionment into the 1940s with the communists after the utopian 1930s shown in the literature of the time. As a postscript, we’ll follow the retreat of the Republican government to Barcelona by watching a recent film about the schism between the Trotskyists and Stalinists.
