Course Requirements
===================

The reading of all texts *not* marked with an asterisk, yet mentioned in the syllabus, is required. The final grade will be calculated from class participation (30%), the first paper (30%), and the final paper (40%).

* **Class participation**: This portion of the grade is made up of attendance, the small writing journal on chalk, presentation/discussion, and office hours. Attendance in class is mandatory, and that includes intellectual attendance. Students are expected to have the day’s reading completed and to have a small set of questions of observations planned out ahead of time. As a check for preparation, students are required to post, starting Week Two, a small (< 300 word) working out of questions or concerns based on the discussion of class to come. The little journals will be posted to chalk by 20:00 the day before class, and they must be posted weekly. Reading each other’s posts is mandatory, and responding on chalk is strongly encouraged, so that class can begin with the proverbial feet already on the ground. During class, I expect students to be engaged. This class will be largely, if not entirely, discussion-driven, so lack of participation hurts not only the individual student’s grade, but also the ability of the rest of the class to get much out of the session. Finally, every student must meet with me for a brief meeting during office hours by Week Five. This will be a casual opportunity for us to interact outside of the classroom, permitting me and the student to talk both about what we’ve liked about the class so far and about what needs improvement. 

* **First Paper**: A first paper, of about 1750 words, is due at 23:59 on the second day of class in Week Five. It must be submitted to me, fully formatted, via e-mail, as either a .doc, .pdf, .rtf, or .ps file. The paper should be a close reading of either a passage from *Native Son* or one of Hughes’s poems. The close reading should draw on what we have learned about the relationship between the communist left and African-American literary production during the 1930s. Students should limit their papers to the texts—literary and critical—that we have read in class *only*.

* **Final Paper**: A final paper is due at 23:59 on the Thursday of Finals Week. It should be about 2000 words long, and it must be submitted to me following the same procedures as the first paper. It should focus on the literary texts we read from Spain, but still incorporate the critical material we read in the first half of the course. Students should draw conclusions about the involvement of Americans in the Spanish Civil War based on what we have read about communists in the US. Again, no external reading is necessary. Additionally, students may choose to submit a draft of their paper via e-email by 23:59 on the final day of class, which I will return with comments and a provisional grade on Monday of Finals Week. The student can resubmit a final paper on the following Thursday. The grade can only stay the same or improve, and it cannot improve more than 2 places (B to A-, for example). The final paper should also include a one-page cover letter that serves as a sort of intellectual history of the paper, as well as a description of the paper’s goals and, in the student’s estimation, the ability of the paper to meet those goals.

**Your Requirements of Me**: The only materials presented to me that will receive a grade are the first and final papers. Your chalk posts are there only to show me that you are engaged with the course of the class, and, though ungraded, contribute to your participation grade. I will also make myself available, via office hours and email, to answer any concerns or problems you have finding secondary texts or understanding the reading, or pretty much anything else related to the course. I will try to respond to emails promptly, but I must insist on a 24-hour window for response. All course materials, including reserve readings and the syllabus, will be available for download from chalk. I will also try to create an atmosphere in class where you can all learn from each other. Finally, I will have a mid-term review of the course for you all to tell me what you like and don’t like so far about the course.
